## Facial-Emotion-Detection

# Since breast cancer is by far the most frequent disease in women, it's critical to have a precise and reliable method for diagnosing whether a tumor is benign or malignant. In the year 2020, 276,00 new cases of invasive and 48,000 new non-invasive instances of breast cancer were recorded in the United States according to the National Breast Cancer Foundation. Putting these figures in perspective, 64 percent of these cases are discovered early in the disease's cycle, giving patients a 99 percent chance of survival. Deep Learning approaches are increasingly routinely used in breast cancer classification. They have exceptional categorization and diagnostic accuracy. The goal of this research is to provide an overview of the fundamental ideas and achievements in artificial intelligence (AI) for diagnosis of breast cancer in mammography and digital breast tomosynthesis.

# Cancer is considered as one of the most serious diseases that people face, and no permanent solution has yet been identified. Different regions of the breast is prone to develop breast cancer, it is considered to be the most common type of cancer among women and has a high fatality rate. Breast cancer is classified into four types: benign, in-situ carcinoma, and invasive carcinoma. (Zhou et al., 2020). A benign tumor causes a small alteration in the anatomy of the breast. It is not dangerous and is not considered as cancer. The mammary duct lobule system is the only organ affected by in-situ cancer, which does not disseminate to other organs. This variety isn't harmful and can be treated if caught early enough. The most serious kind of breast cancer is invasive carcinoma, which can spread to all other organs. Each year, 2.1 million women worldwide get diagnosed with breast cancer, as per the World Health Organization (WHO). Breast cancer is the most common malignancy mostly in United States, reaching up to 30% (1 in 3) of women diagnosed annually. Invasive breast cancer is predicted to account for 287,850 suspected cases in 2022, plus 51,400 new cases of non-invasive (in situ) breast cancer (www.breastcancer.org, 2022).

# In order to develop predictive decision-making models machine learning (ML) is widely used. Machine learning can be used to detect early stages of breast cancer by analyzing the tumor size and predicting the early stages of anomaly in cells. Early identification, diagnosis, and treatment of cancer can lower the chance of mortality, it is crucial in saving the patient's life. Delayed detection of can lead to progression of the disease and complication of treatment, thus a protracted wait between being diagnosed with breast cancer and commencing treatment is concerning. Machine learning techniques can aid in understanding the progression of cancer cells, in order for these techniques to be used in everyday clinical scenarios, an appropriate level of validation is required. This paper showcases an implementation of such cancer prediction tool that makes use of a pre-existing dataset “Breast cancer Wisconsin (diagnostic) data set” provided by UCI machine learning.
